Hello, Selamat Malam. In the interview unto David, head of fleet operations. English fifty minutes tapi boleh bahasa Indonesia yeah gampang pake bahasa Indonesia aja. Okay, goal: full boat lifecycle, daily check, maintenance, full captain emergencies for fleet management module in new location. Okay. The rules: how this works — record on your phone, answer honestly about how things actually work. Notes are here for the key point. Okay, walked me through yesterday morning first check, boat preparation. Captain field checklist format: how to decide which boat goes out. Jedi Harris Bloomia and took preparation. Kita can check boat a payang available to the stock. Apaka y the available, at the crossakan, apakar the maintenance la lu kitakan cross check dungiing the website untuk besok. Default nya de la available makeup in the off unto Kapaluan. Kru siakalo add the young didsa Booking the njuga apakkapal to the maintenance, Rusia. Extras nyapa, atokomen nyapa, danger checkpa nung bang yaapa kasaswe danggan capacitas Young ad that this way the Tambajuga dang yeah. So this is Bloomya kita can board clearance Young Kitapalokandala Nama Nama passenger list plus guide and Captain Crew Akamba to Gas undok Besok Lalu Lalu. How do you track its boat conditions? Maintenance schedule? How often breakdowns? Repair forces routine? How do you know? Okay. Stiya parinya both the checkshi, yeah, and the condition body domain, captain, then crew, a cancel mung check, then you'd have to Biassanya untuk maintenance machine, stratus diap stratus jam machine, kita at a maintenance. Young biasanya tu kita ganti oli machine, oli gearbox. Then gasket gearbox. Masinga papajuga untuk ganti tiap duratus jam sekali untuk filter olinya o la lu untuk perpatiang laynea seta gantung adadi satyap tigratus jam atom patratus jam. Kita component ato didn't jugum entrance young partahun. Ador bagyan body apa fiber fiber appa yang rusak i parbakis kalyan untuk yang il kathil. Mmm, kelanyut ki parta nyamricut nya captains how many assignment communication captain itu parkapal saturation Halu saimanya ittu uda de fix can dun cru so da satu paket di satuka i to, katchwaali, caral ada young Tidak bisa Bakrja Makakita kan chariperim yang lain atto umbil freelance. Kalo no show what happens itu Saya kasi Surat SP. Kalo Brebrati Dak Muncho So mascali colo tlat massi de bull ma best meet then masy be prepared then couple ready subloom schedule masi the kasi print saja beasanya tapi record akant ijin Maxima Sahari Sabloumya unto kallo tipisa masukalo. Bikitto untuk proto colo. Simono yada. Tauna loot says the adult the recouple the day and so on did upon the back up nanti Sekarang Makasu de Maso Del Durado, Jedi Talk Add Backup Lagi, and Chari Backup Laggy CD Miman. Palo Backup Captain and Crew, Young Mungkin Kalo Tibati B. The Pagihari Adean Dabisa, Johnto Ado, Adian Sakit, Ato Amitalakaan, yeah, new karapuna backup Captain Crew and to the Captain. Okay, lanjutnya fuel, tracking consumption, and cost lock per boat per trip who refuels. Okay, untuk me nak in the Kita Tiabhari isampano, jedi kita kantao pamakayan hari itubrapa, jedi kana of the samp would haripano, pak the refill sampai. Untuk younger refueled it to be senior Captain Crew than Timbankar Alluck per boot trip, adapte de notable minya di info is accounting. took Brikot nya worst water incident last year. Umga adasia ja Masi Bisa the handle. 2 town laluya. Can you see sa la nbill ombak yeah? Uh, trakana patir ituga Amazakat dyaran jadia, but then mungitkan jugga. Written emergency protocol, who do you call first? Yeah, Jedi Bastiang Haros Taudul One, Lalu Say Charis Holoshi, Charisol Sinya, Trikan Tung Kalo Kroosakan Sajja, Satany or the Matra Pro Baikinya, Kalo at the Amin Aminekalaka Anya. Kita Sungin Marine on the What data daily were stored pool last month first what would you automate? Yeah, und automatis und du ken automist automate kalubisa si to ya passenger list unto clearance hari and passenger list bike Tamu then get suda column and file and copy then the lamp park agency bandar. Buggy to aja se the re sa yeah mungalo di tanya kan bi sa tanya kan lang sungsa ja makasi