Good morning guys, it's Edward. Just want to send a voice note for the questions. Yeah, let's get to it, I guess. Yeah, number one, I would say we are responsible for managing all the information that we receive from guests and OTAs and inputting them in the lead so that the team on the ground knows what's happening. For example, transport shuttle, any extras and informing suppliers if there's any vendor boats that we need to book and photographers, things like that. So that everything is smooth and prepared for the day. Also, obviously to convert leads into bookings, I think that's also one of the main things. Yeah, I think that's to sum it up, that's the best I can put it through a typical day. When I start in the morning, if I morning shift, I would go through all the messages, see if anybody is messaging regarding that day's tour. For example, if a driver hasn't contacted them or if they need the meeting point again, things like that. So that's very important in case they arrive late, that's very important. After that, I would input OTAs and overnight bookings, especially the closest dates for the next day or the day after that. And make sure we still have enough boats available for the next day. And if not, then we need to close the availability for shared and premium shared. After that, the whole day is just answering guest inquiries, inputting OTAs as fast as possible. And checking tasks for any leads that wanted to book for the next day. And at the end of the day, I would double check the tours, especially privates. If there are any extras that were missed, I'm going through the conversation. See if anybody missed the information when they're in the conversation to begin with. And then rechecking the task and passing it over to afternoon shift. If I'm in the afternoon, then when I start, I would start by checking my overdue tasks from yesterday. And assisting with the morning shift transition. Asking if there are any guests that need priority for tomorrow's tour, things like that. And then at the end of the day, make sure that all the transports are booked. If there are any last-minute additions, inform G. David and the drivers for last-minute bookings. And make sure all the vendor boats are confirmed. And they have the information they need, like the guest details and stuff as well. And then up at the closing, just answer ongoing chats. Percentage of the day, I would say 20% on WhatsApp to talk to the other managers and G and things like that. And obviously the guest relations group, if there's any information. Odoo, I would say maybe 10% because we only use it when there's new bookings or if we're adding transport, adding other extras. Maybe less than 10%. And then other tools, obviously Como we use a lot. Other than Como, I would say I use Google Maps to check where guests are located to suggest shuttle bus points. And estimate how far they are from the meeting point, things like that. The other thing I use now is ChatGPT to come up with, you know, when guests are annoying, it's easier to use ChatGPT to come up with words to calm them down. It's very useful these days. But yeah, maybe very little, just with annoying guests. Number four. Inquiry. The first thing I would do is greet them with a template. Yeah. Hi, I'm Edward. I'm here to help with your booking. Like, how can I help you today? Sometimes I would delete some of the words that are in the template still because it kind of doesn't line up with what they're asking. For example, the template says, let me go through your messages and get back to you. But if they only said hi, obviously I would delete that because it doesn't make sense. Yeah. Number five. Top five questions guests ask the most. I would say, what's the best price? Is the tour available for X date? And is vegetarian lunch option available? And especially now with the OTAs, are transfers included? Because a lot of them think it's included with the shuttle bus. The other one, what's the weather like? Is I think one of the most asked questions as well. Number six. Answers that we don't have the information. I would say more technical stuff like boat information, like what year, the size of the boat, and the engines, and the speed, things like that. We used to have it when it was on the old website, on Nusa Penida 1. I remember each boat had the specifications, even though it's very general, but it helps. I can just copy and paste when the guests are asking. Other than that, I would say the other thing is if a guest wants to customize the itinerary for the day, then I would have to refer to G. And yeah, I think that's about it. Other than that, all the information are pretty clear. How do you check availability when guests ask for a specific date? Okay, I would go to the website, find the date that they want, and I'll also pull up the calendar. Because sometimes the boat, it might not be available on the website, but it's actually not assigned to anything in the calendar. Because let's say if there was a booking that was canceled and it wasn't canceled properly, the boat would still be marked as not available, even though it's not being used on that date. So yeah, I would check both just to make sure that there's no double booking or if, yeah, things like that. How long it takes from first guest message to confirm booking? It really depends on the guest. If they're really interested and just wanted to confirm a couple of last details, then it takes maybe 5-10 minutes. But if they're planning for a few months in advance, it can take days of conversation, even weeks of following up to get them to book. Because especially now with the war and things like that, that's very uncertain. So a lot of guests are hesitant to book a few months in advance. So usually the serious, the hot leads are quick. But if it's just, you know, they're planning ahead, it can take some time. The booking process from the moment a guest wants to book to the moment the booking is confirmed? Okay, if the guest says I want to book, then I would ask them what they're looking for. Sorry, not what they're looking for. We have to offer them a private or a shared option and also ask them how many people they're booking for and the date. So I can recommend a boat or a tour specifically that's suited for them. And then when and if they answer, then yeah, I would go through. These are the options that are best suited for them. For example, if they have 10 people, I would recommend a star boat, obviously, like Lady Manta or Ricky Jay with a private tour. And yeah, if it suits them, then send them the booking link from the website. And then hopefully they book right away. If not, then I would set tasks to remind every day or every other day. If it's been more than three or four days and they haven't booked yet, then I would set a reminder every day. And yeah, I guess that's about it. Number 10, what information do you need from the guest to complete booking? I would need the date, number of people, the itinerary they wanted to book, if there's any extras or transport they want to book. I also need their email address if it's a manual booking. And yeah, that's it. I don't normally ask if anyone is pregnant or outside the age. Normally they would provide that information themselves, most of the time anyway. Except Indians, they usually don't calculate babies or elderly as people. So yeah, that could be a problem sometimes. Booking information, I would send via chat and also the email with the template. It includes the date, the tour type, and the boat. But if we send a manual booking confirmation, there's no extras in the email. That's the only thing that sometimes guests ask about because they want to know exactly what they booked. So I would list it down in the chat one by one. If the guest doesn't pay on time, I would follow up every... If it's for the next day, I would follow up every couple of hours just in case they didn't read the message. If it's for a few months ahead, I would follow up every two or three days. If it's kind of close, the date they want is within a week, I would follow up every day just to see if they're still planning on doing it. If it's my day of the next day, then I would pass it on to the next manager on shift to follow up. If a guest contacts us but they booked from an OTA, then I would ask them their booking reference to check if it's the right booking and what tour type they have and things like that. So yeah, the booking reference is the most important. Number 14, the most common complaints are they think transport was included in the booking and also the weather because if it's cloudy and not super sunny, sometimes guests complain. But that's just the nature of people on holidays, I guess. Number 15, I sleep to DIMA when there's things like if the guests are very, very hesitant, not hesitant, they're very, very insisting on getting a refund or reschedule. Obviously, I would try to stick to the cancellation policy, but sometimes the guests are just very, very, very insisting. In low season anyway, we do case by case. So yeah, I would ask DIMA if it's possible for them to reschedule and things like that. The other thing is to Karim if guests are asking for a discount or what the best offer is and yeah, things like that. Have you ever made a mistake? Yeah, a few times. Made a mistake in putting the date a couple of times. The wrong boat, not necessary. I don't think so. And the wrong price, no, it should be all good. But yeah, the date is the... Yeah, it happened a couple of times. I think, I'm not sure what happened in the calendar. Let's say, for example, they wanted Friday the 13th, but I looked at next month's calendar or something and then yeah, that happened once, I think. Also, the other confusing thing is with Klook because they use US date format and a couple of times we input it wrong, but we caught it right away. Like, let's say, I'm on shift with Uda, we would check each other's leads to make sure it's all good. The most stressful part is, I would say, when a guest is complaining, let's say, and it's something that's out of our control. For example, with wave conditions or weather. Yeah, if it's a complaint about a mistake that we make, then obviously that's our fault. But if it's a complaint about something that we can't do anything about, it's hard to explain. We can't say like, we're not God, we don't know what the weather is going to be. But yeah, I think that's the most stressful. But other than that, it's pretty good, I would say. Handling cancellation. If it's an OTA and they send us a cancellation notice, then I would check the booking reference in Como and then make sure that it's the correct booking that I'm canceling. Because sometimes guests make multiple bookings with different booking references. So yeah, just make sure the booking reference is the same. Move it to change data and then cancellation. And if it's the only booking I have, then I would send the template checking if it's the cancellation by mistake or if they're actually wanting to cancel. If it's a cancellation from a website booking, because it comes up in the lead as the lead is canceled by the guest, I would ask them if it's a confirmed cancellation. And if it is, then I would type it out in the chat that the cancellation is confirmed and we'll process the refund as soon as possible. And then send them the proof of refund when the accounting team has refunded them. Date change request. Then I would ask them what date they want. If it's still within the cancellation policy, then just check if the date is available. And if it is, then ask if it's confirmed. If they confirm, then just change the date and the boat and send them a new confirmation via chat and email. If it's an OTA date change, then I would just follow the OTA amendment date and notice and then just do that. Check, make sure the boat is right, especially for shared boats. What's the refund policy? I would refer to the cancellation policy. If the guests are very, very, very insisting to get a refund, if it's already past the cancellation policy, then I would try to explain that we already prearranged everything and we've prepaid for their booking. So it's not possible to refund. But if they're very, very insisting, then I would ask Dima or Karim if it's possible. And if it's still within the timeframe and it's a shared or private boat, I would offer them the flexible booking option. So it's like a cancellation fee, I guess. A rescheduled refund fee, I guess. Number 21. We get the information from Dima, Karim, or Alex via WhatsApp. Other than that, sometimes G tells us, but I would wait for Dima or Alex or Karim to get the full confirmation. Yeah. 22. When a tour is canceled? There is a template for that. There's a template for tour is canceled today and also a tour is canceled tomorrow. So I would just send to all the leads and then wait for their reply. How many guests do you typically need to notify with the weather cancellation? It really depends on the day. Like typically, like these days we're getting over 100 guests daily, but it doesn't take that long. Maybe around 5-10 minutes, especially if there's another manager on duty. We would divide it up. Let's say I'm on shift with Hardy, then I would say, okay, I'll send the cancellation templates to the shared. You can do the privates. And then we would divide it up between us, who's handling rescheduling, who's handling cancellations and refunds. Because it's easier that way. So we don't get it mixed up. I would also ask the office team to let us know if transfers have been used or not. Also, Wedia sometimes provides us the info like, okay, guest ABC wants to refund, guest DEF wants to reschedule. Because sometimes they don't respond to our chats. Maybe they don't have data connected while they're out and about, so they need Wi-Fi. So rather than waiting for their confirmation, Wedia would send the info sometimes. But we still wait for the guest confirmation via text to confirm. Yeah, that's about it. What do you copy and paste? The most thing that I copy and paste is the template we send on Vietor when there's a booking that comes in. I have in my note like, thanks for booking. Here's the meeting point, or if you need transfers, blah, blah, blah. I think that's the most thing that I copy and paste every day. Other than that, everything is very dynamic. Not many copy and pasting other than the templates we have on Como already. Information, I would chat automatically without having to ask someone. Maybe the weather conditions in the office. Sometimes in the morning, especially during rainy seasons. Because we come in at 6.30 on shift online. And sometimes when guests are asking how the weather is in Sarangan, we'd have to wait for someone to reply in the guides group or the office group. If there was like a CCTV or something that we can see, that would be good. The other information about the boat specifications before. If a key could be automated, I would say OTAs could be a good thing to be automated so we don't get just less room for error, especially with dates and transfers, things like that. But I don't know if it's possible. I guess it would be. Other than that, everything is good. What would make your job significantly easier or less stressful? I think just the OTAs and other OTAs that we need to respond to. Like GetMyBoat and ClickAndBoat. Even though we don't get many inquiries from there. But when we're handling, especially now approaching the high season, when we're handling multiple chats at a time and then that comes up, we have to log in into GetMyBoat and ClickAndBoat and use their chat process. And we have to be careful in what we say and what not to say in case we get warnings from their moderators. I think that would be the only thing. Other than that, what could be... I'll have to think about it, but that's about it from me. Yeah, I find it quite... Not anything is specifically very stressful or hard. Yeah, it's just the chatting with guests. It depends on the guests, really. If it's a hard guest and difficult to work with, then it's difficult. But a lot of guests are easy. They really wanted to book. Yeah, they just wanted some information to confirm before booking. And that's about it. Oh, okay. One thing that will make it easier is creating the payment link. But I think that's the only thing because now we have to go to a website to input the lead number and the price and the information to create a payment link. Whereas before, there was a widget in Como where it takes the information from the lead and automatically creates the payment link for that. The other thing I just thought of is if local agents can pay with a virtual account and be automatically confirmed rather than do a manual bank transfer and having to wait for accounting to confirm, especially if it's after hours. It can take a while. Yeah, I think that's about it. I think that's all the questions. Thank you for listening. Have a good day.
