Alright, here I come. First question is how many guides do you have? Like how many work daily versus rotation? So, actually in total we have 33 active tour guides. Like they commit and loyal to Bluuu. And then we have another 12. Yeah, it's 12 freelance. So, basically they are prepared for the high season or like emergency condition. So, yeah. In total it's around 45 or 46. But it's conditional. And like how many work daily? So, actually in my management I classified the tour guides based on the level or I could say it's a tier. So, there are like 4 tiers. Like the first tier of course the guides with the contract. So, there are 9 people. And then the second tier is the guides with a slightly bigger salary. But they are more skilled, more creative. And then of course like they are more experienced as well. So, and then the third tier is like average guides actually. Like they follow the SOP. They could do a job really well. But it's something like basic. And then the fourth tier is like for them, for the guides, just for the high season. Because we don't use them during the low season. So, yeah. Basically they don't work every day. Of course, you know, I try my best like to give them like as much opportunity as possible. And then the rotations, it's flexible. But, you know, during high season I think they are almost the same. Like, yeah. Not that much difference. It's a big difference during a low season. So, yeah. That's the rotation and like how many work daily. But ideally for the weekly trips, like the healthy one, it's like maximum 5 or 6 trips a week. Even for, you know, if it's very busy, many bookings like during high season. But maximum like 6. Or maybe I'll ask, usually I'll ask the guides if they are still in a good condition. So, I don't want to push them like to work or something like that. Because, you know, it can affect their health. And also if they are not in a good condition, it affects the whole tour as well. So, that's the rotation. Next question is in high season, like you know, how do I solve the shortages? Actually, in high season, based on the last couple of years, it's been great. I think it's enough. Like, we have like the basic, the core team like 33 or maybe 30. It's enough. And for the freelance like 12 or 10, enough. But sometimes the things could get harder. Because, you know, like high season is not only our company. So, it's everybody. Everybody like a different company. Even like different company for like scuba diving or maybe something similar. They need more tour guides too. So, sometimes struggling if there are like last minute bookings or so on. But, you know, so far so good. So, I've never had a problem based on the last year high season. So, yeah. It's always challenging. But I think it's enough. And I didn't have any problem with shortages. So, it's all well managed. And then it's been great. Maybe just one thing, you know, during the high season. Like what the shortages. If there is like emergency sickness or something like that, you know. Like the last minute, like in the morning, one of the guides cannot work. So, I'll jump in and then replace the tour guide and go on a trip. Just to make sure like the operation runs smoothly. So, yeah. So far, we can still handle it without affecting guests that much. And, yeah. For the next question, it's hiring a new guide like walk me through step by step. I personally define how do I find tour guides like the hiring system. I'll try with the closest relation first. For example, like I have trusted tour guides or instructors. Of course, I'll ask them like some recommendation, like good recommendation. If they have some. Because it's much easier for us like to work. Because they already have the basic. They have license, you know, their experience. And then they are getting used to like communication with the guests. So, just need to remind them like the basic SOV. And that's all, you know. How do I, yeah. That's the first thing. And then the second place for recruitment like how do I hire. It's from the, I think this is related to the next question as well. Like where do I find them like requirements. So, yeah. So, the second place. Usually, I'll go to, I'll dive into community like scuba diving community. And also like freediving or spearfishing groups. And then, you know, like if there are any with some requirements like we have. So, yeah. I'll find them there. And then the third place will be like the public area. For example, like the easiest one is the Facebook groups for Bali jobs or something like that. Or like a website like Job Street and Indeed and so on. But mostly for the public ones, they are not a base. They are not Bali based. So, I prefer like local in Bali and then knowing Bali really well. Because it's quite different. Different culture and everything. Like the standards for hospitality. And yeah. So, basically, after I find the guy or the person, like I'll do like a screening based on their CV. And then like interview and then see, you know, like how's the attitude. That's the first thing. And how they communicate with me personally. And then how they communicate with the guests as well. So, after that. So, after the interview. Yeah. If they are past the interview like required. So, I'll put them on a trial trip. If there's no basic. But if they have already a basic and an experience, they can work as a second guide. But I need to pair with the main guide who has like strong leadership, knowledgeable experience and everything. So, yeah. They could learn from the first trip. So, or maybe if there's too busy, I can usually go on a trip with the new freelance. Also. What else? Requirements. And yeah. Of course, like the most important for requirements. Like I prefer to have the guides who can communicate like good English at least. Or maybe if there are like another languages like Spanish, French, or Russian, or Chinese. It's a plus point. And also I demand like certifications. Especially for scuba diving. Or maybe freediving. That would be great because that's the proof that they are experienced and worthy. And the next question. I think, how long from interview to first solo tour? So, as I mentioned before. The solo tour, it takes time. Because it's not something they can achieve in an instant. But it's like a process. And usually at least one month. If they go one month or at least the first 20 trips. Or if they are experienced and then fast learning. And then, yeah, like special. I think it could be less than that. But still, it's gonna be under supervision. So, I think it depends on them. The faster they are experienced, the easier they get the solo trip. But ideally, three months. But if it doesn't work, they might need more time to learn and adjust. So, it's a long process to be able to handle solo tour. Especially for the private one. And any training materials are all available. Actually, it's a mix. But honestly, it's more hands-on. Because we have the SOPs. Especially for safety. Actually, the SOPs cover everything. From the greeting and then meet up with the guests in the morning. And then how to breathe nicely. And then how to explain the itinerary. And also, explain things before departure. And then during the snorkeling. Also, extra information in every snorkeling spot location. Most of the learning comes from doing the job directly. So, it's a mix, I could say. They are given all the information and training right before the trip. So, the next question is... How do you know a guy is performing well? Metrics or gut feeling? To be honest, it's more like an observation experience for me personally. Because it comes from the interview. And then if they are performing well for the next trips. Of course, I observe them. And also see how they handle gas. How smooth the trips are. And how reliable they are. And after a while, I know who I can trust. So, it's a mix actually. Gut feeling and also metrics. Because the first thing, I'll try to use my gut feeling. And then also, I'll need a part of the metrics on the KPI. So, it's always mixed. It's a long process actually. Do you read reviews linked to specific guides? Yeah. Actually, I check it every week. So, it's like three or four times a month. Every month, I'll do the reviews as well. So, I read all the reviews and everything. It's not about the reading, but also reading the reviews in detail. Because it's very important how our guests are satisfied with their service and everything. If there are some little notes, I'll consider it. If someone keeps getting mentioned, good or bad, I'll take it seriously. That's it. I think the next question is related to the previous one. Does rating affect which group a guide is? Yeah, actually. Actually, yes, it does. But it's more like the guides with a high consistency. Obviously, we'll get more demanding groups. So, it does affect. Because if the guides keep getting bad... For example, this guide is not good while handling Middle East. Or maybe Indian. So, I'll try to find the core problem and try to find a solution. And then, I'll try to find someone else, like the other guides, to adjust who's gonna handle specific groups. To get a better experience for the group itself. And also, always give the others a chance to improve as well. So, that's it. For the next question, it's very interesting. How do you build the schedule? Who goes where and how do you decide? Actually, it's quite practical. Because, you know, how do I build schedule is based on the type of tours and the specialty of our guides have. And also, of course, the first thing is the availability and experience. And later, I'll try to match them with the right trip. So, yeah, it's actually a complicated variable. So, for example, we have guides who like the kids. And then, it's like a family trip. So, we have guides who can handle Indian groups because they're special or something like that. Also, we have guides with different languages. Just something like that, you know. So, that's how I build schedule. Like who goes where. And it's based on the trip as well. Sometimes, you know, there is a trip which is just chill and then party on the boat. And not many activities. So, I'll put the guides with the same energy with the guys who like the party as well. So, that's how I decide them going on a trip. But, again, it's quite hard to explain actually. But, you know, the basic things that I know my team really well. So, so far, it's been great, like going great. Like I always, not always, but mostly match the guides with the typical of the trips or the types of the tour. And also, like building schedule, it's not always about like rolling the guides with another one. But also, I need to understand them personally, like personality. Because, you know, sometimes, but not sometimes, it's actually happening. We have like different types of personality, right? So, I know like some guides match with some guides with the same or similar personality. And they could be like great, great duo. So, and also usually, what happens next is, you know, when they're going together, like the duo, they could produce a lot of good feedback. But, you know, if we are going with the same format, it's kind of work. Because they need to learn with different guides as well. So, they need to understand different guides' personality as well. And, yeah, that's why I always roll them. But somehow, like at some point, I match them with the right personality. So, we could get more feedback actually. And then, that's how I decide with the trip. And, yeah, I think the next question is related to the first one. Like, does guide have preference for tour types? Yep, I already mentioned before. Like, it depends on what trips are they gonna go. So, I'll put the right guides for the typical of the trips or the tour. So, yeah. And also, the next question. So, it happens sometimes. But I always ask to all of the guides, like maximum giving the last information. If they wanna, you know, taking an urgent event or something like that. Maximum at 9. So, I could prepare better for the next trip. But somehow, you know, it could be like in the middle of the night. Like, if they're not feeling well or maybe something happened to the family. Yeah, I always try my best to get the replacement. So, it won't affect the tour, you know, in the morning. So, yeah, I'll do the backup call for the guides. So, yeah, always make it better. But, you know, sometimes if it's like very urgent situation. Like, if they don't show up in the morning. So, I'm always ready for the last backup. But if there are still guides who... So, here's the thing. I always put the guides who live around Sarangan for the last option. Because, you know, something like this always happens. So, if that happens, usually the first thing I'll try to check their availability. Like, who lives in Sarangan. And then if they're not available, like no options, I'll go for the trip. So, yeah. So, it's not gonna affect the tour or the guests that much. And for the next question is about, have you had to fire? Have you had to fire a guide? For what? Is there any warranty? Yes, it happened a few times. Last time, I remember, like, there are three. Like, I fired three. And then the rest were two. Yeah, the rest were two. So, I think, usually it's because of, like, repeated mistakes. Like being, like, poor attitude. Or, you know, like, yeah, poor attitude. Or, like, problems related to attitude, basically. Or maybe, not maybe. Or it's about the work ethic and then responsibility. Of course, like, the first thing, I'll give the verbal warning. So, yeah. Usually I'll meet with the guide and face-to-face and say things, blah, blah, blah. And then if there's a change or something to improve. So, yeah. I'll let them go, you know. Or just give the warning later. The first, second, and maybe the last one. And, yeah. But at some point, if the guide did something really terrible. Like, it's a very serious issue. So, yeah. They could get fired, like, immediately. Depending on how bad the problem is. So, yeah. That's it. And then how the guides react to negative feedback. So, I think it's mostly, like, it depends on the person. So, yeah. It's all different, like, different reactions. Some take it well. Some get, like, very defensive at first. But I think with the right communication and approachment. They accept it and then, you know, apologize. And then also they are willing to fix the problem. So far, like, the same mistake didn't happen after the negative feedback. Because they really take it seriously. And, yeah. I think that's it for the question. And next question. Oh, my God. This is, like, best guide versus average guide. So, what's the difference? Actually, the best guides are more, like, consistent. More, like, consistent. And then they take more initiative. They are creative. And then, yeah. Something like that. You know, like, the best guides, they don't just, you know, like, follow instructions. Sometimes they have, like, their own ideas, like, very positive ideas. And, like, giving more contributions to our company. And then they always think ahead. So, yeah. They also handle problems, like, smoothly. It's very important. And they take something like ownership. It's something, you know, like, yeah, ownership. You know, the ownership means, for me personally, it's like care. And then they love the company. So, they feel they have the company. So, that's, I think, for the best guides. And then the average guides, they just, you know, they just do the job. But mostly, they are just, like, stick to the basic things. So, that's the difference, I think, between the best and average guides. Yeah. And the next question is, If you could clone one guide, who and why? Well, it's not. It's quite hard to answer. It's not really one person. But it's more like a time. So, like, no one is perfect, I know. Even, like, maybe I might clone myself. But at some point, I need someone's skill, someone's creativity. And then, you know, it's always a mix. So, I could say it's more like a type, like, combination of some guides. So, yeah, I would love to have, for the perfect guide to be cloned, I would love to someone have, like, very proactive, really good with guests, like, reliable, and then very calm, under pressure, and creative. They can entertain, you know, knowledgeable, like, experience with everything. Especially, you know, like, in Nusa Penida, we need someone who understands really well about the situation, like, the nature, and then the culture, and everything. Because, yeah, that's the plus point, you know, for, to be a tour guide, like, Nusa Penida tour guide. Because our trip mostly in Nusa Penida. And then, those are, you know, the ones who really make a difference. So, I could say, not a person, but it's like a type or a mix of the tour guides. So, I think that's my opinion. Yeah, I think that's all the questions that I had answered. Maybe I'll add more later in a separate voice note if there are any things to add on. But, I think, yeah, I have answered all. So, yeah, that's it. Yeah, it should be 45 minutes, but I think I'm done with all the questions. And, yep, thank you very much.
